---
date: 2019-01-04
slug: old-things
title: The Relevance of Old Things
---
{% extends "layout/post.html" %}

I've always been fascinated by old things. As a teenager, I had a map of the world in 550 A.D. on my wall. My favorite movie as a young adult was *Troy*.

But nothing fascinates me more than old technology. I have fond memories from when I was a kid playing *Gauntlet* on my family's NES, even though I was only one year old when the PlayStation 2 came out. The first computer that was ever mine was a laptop that came pre-installed with Windows 95. This was trackpads were invented — I still lament the lack of trackballs in laptops these days. My first computer could barely do more than play DigDug and Solitaire, and had no wireless networking support, but it was plenty for me. 

Eventually, though, my fascination became a hobby. I'm currently typing this on a mid-2009 MacBook, which was EOL'd in 2012, years before I bought it. Many times in my programming classes I was questioned for using such an ancient machine to do my work. I'll admit, occasionally it was a slight inconvenience — this machine has a Core 2 Duo, 4GB of main memory, and a small 5200 RPM hard drive, all of which struggle to run Apple's OS X El Capitan at a reasonable pace. Boot and loading times on this laptop are certainly a throwback to the mid-2000s when I'd keep a soduko book on my desk for whenever I wanted to open Firefox on my desktop (which looked like [this](https://www.lifewire.com/thmb/6XJUU98W7zUwXEFTALvSynRpjSg=/768x0/filters:no_upscale():max_bytes(150000):strip_icc()/dell-dimension-b110-56a1b4e73df78cf7726d3e23.jpg)). Once everything's up and running, though, I rarely have issues with this laptop. It's the main weapon I have against submitting to our eventual Electron overlords, but Firefox and Safari work fine on it, and Emacs has no issues whatsover.

For any serious work I use my Lenovo Thinkpad Yoga 3, which dual boots Linux and Windows 10. But there's something I learned over the course of a semester of writing Scheme and Java on a machine that Apple claims doesn't exist. Most people see a computer older than five years old and treat it as little more than garbage. These people are really missing out, though. Old tech often works just as well as modern stuff, occasionally even better, if a bit slower.

From 2009 to 2013 I used a Dell Latitude as my main work laptop. It was a wonderful machine, with a build quality that would make modern Dell XPS series laptops cry in shame. I replaced it with the Thinkpad Yoga, but the Latitude still worked perfectly fine so I decided to install Windows Server on it and use it as a NAS on my local network. I realized that having a laptop with a battery serving files is essentially the same as a server with a UPS, only slower. In early 2015, the GPU fried and I had no display on the machine anymore. However, it continued to function perfectly fine as a file server for over a year and a half before it finally toasted in 2017. I got four years of use out of a machine that most of my peers would probably have thrown away as soon as they got the latest and greatest machine.

I'm in a somewhat similar state today as I was in 2013. My Thinkpad is, unfortunately, showing its age. It's missing about six keys, the touchscreen no longer works (the screen is full of cracks), and I have a layer of pink duct tape covering the entire edge of the screen as the glue came unadhesed several months ago. However (occasionally despite my wishes) the machine itself still works wonderfully. I still game and program on it on a daily basis, with only the exterior parts of the laptop coming undone. I'm not interested in replacing it while it still works, even though all of my friends have been pestering me to buy a new one for almost a year. When I stop being able to do the things I'd like to do with the machine, then I'll find some other use for it and find a new one to be my work laptop (Admittedly, the fact that I don't have $1200 to spend on a new laptop may be a factor in my delaying an upgrade).

The television studio that I work at operates a PowerBook G4 as its primary laptop for mobile work. It's still running Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger, and we have all sorts of patches and hacks to get it to run modern software (TenFourFox, tiger-webkit, etc). With 512 MB of RAM and an RJ25 jack I'm sure some of my computer science peers would vomit in their mouths if they realized we used it to power our teleprompter and occasionally even do mobile video editing with it! 

I believe that if most people would treat their technology more like their cars — that is, as something to be squeezed of all possible life and value before being replaced — they'd find their lives a lot richer and more interesting.
